gcc/config/arm/constraints.md, before:

;; Constraint definitions for ARM and Thumb
;; Copyright (C) 2006-2013 Free Software Foundation, Inc.
;; Contributed by ARM Ltd.

;; This file is part of GCC.

;; GCC is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it
;; under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published
;; by the Free Software Foundation; either version 3, or (at your
;; option) any later version.

;; GCC is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but WITHOUT
;; ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of MERCHANTABILITY
;; or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the GNU General Public
;; License for more details.

;; You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
;; along with GCC; see the file COPYING3.  If not see
;; <http://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.

;; The following register constraints have been used:
;; - in ARM/Thumb-2 state: t, w, x, y, z
;; - in Thumb state: h, b
;; - in both states: l, c, k, q, US
;; In ARM state, 'l' is an alias for 'r'
;; 'f' and 'v' were previously used for FPA and MAVERICK registers.

;; The following normal constraints have been used:
;; in ARM/Thumb-2 state: G, I, j, J, K, L, M
;; in Thumb-1 state: I, J, K, L, M, N, O
;; 'H' was previously used for FPA.

;; The following multi-letter normal constraints have been used:
;; in ARM/Thumb-2 state: Da, Db, Dc, Dd, Dn, Dl, DL, Do, Dv, Dy, Di, Dt, Dz
;; in Thumb-1 state: Pa, Pb, Pc, Pd, Pe
;; in Thumb-2 state: Pj, PJ, Ps, Pt, Pu, Pv, Pw, Px, Py

;; The following memory constraints have been used:
;; in ARM/Thumb-2 state: Q, Ut, Uv, Uy, Un, Um, Us
;; in ARM state: Uq
;; in Thumb state: Uu, Uw


(define_register_constraint "t" "TARGET_32BIT ? VFP_LO_REGS : NO_REGS"
 "The VFP registers @code{s0}-@code{s31}.")

(define_register_constraint "w"
  "TARGET_32BIT ? (TARGET_VFPD32 ? VFP_REGS : VFP_LO_REGS) : NO_REGS"
 "The VFP registers @code{d0}-@code{d15}, or @code{d0}-@code{d31} for VFPv3.")

(define_register_constraint "x" "TARGET_32BIT ? VFP_D0_D7_REGS : NO_REGS"
 "The VFP registers @code{d0}-@code{d7}.")

(define_register_constraint "y" "TARGET_REALLY_IWMMXT ? IWMMXT_REGS : NO_REGS"
 "The Intel iWMMX co-processor registers.")

(define_register_constraint "z"
 "TARGET_REALLY_IWMMXT ? IWMMXT_GR_REGS : NO_REGS"
 "The Intel iWMMX GR registers.")

(define_register_constraint "l" "TARGET_THUMB ? LO_REGS : GENERAL_REGS"
 "In Thumb state the core registers @code{r0}-@code{r7}.")

(define_register_constraint "h" "TARGET_THUMB ? HI_REGS : NO_REGS"
 "In Thumb state the core registers @code{r8}-@code{r15}.")

(define_constraint "j"
 "A constant suitable for a MOVW instruction. (ARM/Thumb-2)"
 (and (match_test "TARGET_32BIT && arm_arch_thumb2")
      (ior (match_code "high")
	   (and (match_code "const_int")
                (match_test "(ival & 0xffff0000) == 0")))))

(define_constraint "Pj"
 "@internal A 12-bit constant suitable for an ADDW or SUBW instruction. (Thumb-2)"
 (and (match_code "const_int")
      (and (match_test "TARGET_THUMB2")
	   (match_test "(ival & 0xfffff000) == 0"))))

(define_constraint "PJ"
 "@internal A constant that satisfies the Pj constrant if negated."
 (and (match_code "const_int")
      (and (match_test "TARGET_THUMB2")
	   (match_test "((-ival) & 0xfffff000) == 0"))))

(define_register_constraint "k" "STACK_REG"
 "@internal The stack register.")

(define_register_constraint "q" "(TARGET_ARM && TARGET_LDRD) ? CORE_REGS : GENERAL_REGS"
  "@internal In ARM state with LDRD support, core registers, otherwise general registers.")

(define_register_constraint "b" "TARGET_THUMB ? BASE_REGS : NO_REGS"
 "@internal
  Thumb only.  The union of the low registers and the stack register.")

(define_register_constraint "c" "CC_REG"
 "@internal The condition code register.")

(define_register_constraint "Cs" "CALLER_SAVE_REGS"
 "@internal The caller save registers.  Useful for sibcalls.")

(define_constraint "I"
 "In ARM/Thumb-2 state a constant that can be used as an immediate value in a
  Data Processing instruction.  In Thumb-1 state a constant in the range
  0-255."
 (and (match_code "const_int")
      (match_test "TARGET_32BIT ? const_ok_for_arm (ival)
		   : ival >= 0 && ival <= 255")))

(define_constraint "J"
 "In ARM/Thumb-2 state a constant in the range @minus{}4095-4095.  In Thumb-1
  state a constant in the range @minus{}255-@minus{}1."
 (and (match_code "const_int")
      (match_test "TARGET_32BIT ? (ival >= -4095 && ival <= 4095)
		   : (ival >= -255 && ival <= -1)")))

(define_constraint "K"
 "In ARM/Thumb-2 state a constant that satisfies the @code{I} constraint if
  inverted.  In Thumb-1 state a constant that satisfies the @code{I}
  constraint multiplied by any power of 2."
 (and (match_code "const_int")
      (match_test "TARGET_32BIT ? const_ok_for_arm (~ival)
		   : thumb_shiftable_const (ival)")))

(define_constraint "L"
 "In ARM/Thumb-2 state a constant that satisfies the @code{I} constraint if
  negated.  In Thumb-1 state a constant in the range @minus{}7-7."
 (and (match_code "const_int")
      (match_test "TARGET_32BIT ? const_ok_for_arm (-ival)
		   : (ival >= -7 && ival <= 7)")))

;; The ARM state version is internal...
;; @internal In ARM/Thumb-2 state a constant in the range 0-32 or any
;; power of 2.
(define_constraint "M"
 "In Thumb-1 state a constant that is a multiple of 4 in the range 0-1020."
 (and (match_code "const_int")
      (match_test "TARGET_32BIT ? ((ival >= 0 && ival <= 32)
				 || (((ival & (ival - 1)) & 0xFFFFFFFF) == 0))
		   : ival >= 0 && ival <= 1020 && (ival & 3) == 0")))

(define_constraint "N"
 "Thumb-1 state a constant in the range 0-31."
 (and (match_code "const_int")
      (match_test "!TARGET_32BIT && (ival >= 0 && ival <= 31)")))

(define_constraint "O"
 "In Thumb-1 state a constant that is a multiple of 4 in the range
  @minus{}508-508."
 (and (match_code "const_int")
      (match_test "TARGET_THUMB1 && ival >= -508 && ival <= 508
		   && ((ival & 3) == 0)")))

(define_constraint "Pa"
  "@internal In Thumb-1 state a constant in the range -510 to +510"
  (and (match_code "const_int")
       (match_test "TARGET_THUMB1 && ival >= -510 && ival <= 510
		    && (ival > 255 || ival < -255)")))

(define_constraint "Pb"
  "@internal In Thumb-1 state a constant in the range -262 to +262"
  (and (match_code "const_int")
       (match_test "TARGET_THUMB1 && ival >= -262 && ival <= 262
		    && (ival > 255 || ival < -255)")))

(define_constraint "Pc"
  "@internal In Thumb-1 state a constant that is in the range 1021 to 1275"
  (and (match_code "const_int")
       (match_test "TARGET_THUMB1
  		    && ival > 1020 && ival <= 1275")))

(define_constraint "Pd"
  "@internal In Thumb state a constant in the range 0 to 7"
  (and (match_code "const_int")
       (match_test "TARGET_THUMB && ival >= 0 && ival <= 7")))

(define_constraint "Pe"
  "@internal In Thumb-1 state a constant in the range 256 to +510"
  (and (match_code "const_int")
       (match_test "TARGET_THUMB1 && ival >= 256 && ival <= 510")))

(define_constraint "Ps"
  "@internal In Thumb-2 state a constant in the range -255 to +255"
  (and (match_code "const_int")
       (match_test "TARGET_THUMB2 && ival >= -255 && ival <= 255")))

(define_constraint "Pt"
  "@internal In Thumb-2 state a constant in the range -7 to +7"
  (and (match_code "const_int")
       (match_test "TARGET_THUMB2 && ival >= -7 && ival <= 7")))

(define_constraint "Pu"
  "@internal In Thumb-2 state a constant in the range +1 to +8"
  (and (match_code "const_int")
       (match_test "TARGET_THUMB2 && ival >= 1 && ival <= 8")))

(define_constraint "Pv"
  "@internal In Thumb-2 state a constant in the range -255 to 0"
  (and (match_code "const_int")
       (match_test "TARGET_THUMB2 && ival >= -255 && ival <= 0")))

(define_constraint "Pw"
  "@internal In Thumb-2 state a constant in the range -255 to -1"
  (and (match_code "const_int")
       (match_test "TARGET_THUMB2 && ival >= -255 && ival <= -1")))

(define_constraint "Px"
  "@internal In Thumb-2 state a constant in the range -7 to -1"
  (and (match_code "const_int")
       (match_test "TARGET_THUMB2 && ival >= -7 && ival <= -1")))

(define_constraint "Py"
  "@internal In Thumb-2 state a constant in the range 0 to 255"
  (and (match_code "const_int")
       (match_test "TARGET_THUMB2 && ival >= 0 && ival <= 255")))

(define_constraint "Pz"
  "@internal In Thumb-2 state the constant 0"
  (and (match_code "const_int")
       (match_test "TARGET_THUMB2 && (ival == 0)")))

(define_constraint "G"
 "In ARM/Thumb-2 state the floating-point constant 0."
 (and (match_code "const_double")
      (match_test "TARGET_32BIT && arm_const_double_rtx (op)")))

(define_constraint "Dz"
 "@internal
  In ARM/Thumb-2 state a vector of constant zeros."
 (and (match_code "const_vector")
      (match_test "TARGET_NEON && op == CONST0_RTX (mode)")))

(define_constraint "Da"
 "@internal
  In ARM/Thumb-2 state a const_int, const_double or const_vector that can
  be generated with two Data Processing insns."
 (and (match_code "const_double,const_int,const_vector")
      (match_test "TARGET_32BIT && arm_const_double_inline_cost (op) == 2")))

(define_constraint "Db"
 "@internal
  In ARM/Thumb-2 state a const_int, const_double or const_vector that can
  be generated with three Data Processing insns."
 (and (match_code "const_double,const_int,const_vector")
      (match_test "TARGET_32BIT && arm_const_double_inline_cost (op) == 3")))

(define_constraint "Dc"
 "@internal
  In ARM/Thumb-2 state a const_int, const_double or const_vector that can
  be generated with four Data Processing insns.  This pattern is disabled
  if optimizing for space or when we have load-delay slots to fill."
 (and (match_code "const_double,const_int,const_vector")
      (match_test "TARGET_32BIT && arm_const_double_inline_cost (op) == 4
		   && !(optimize_size || arm_ld_sched)")))

(define_constraint "Dd"
 "@internal
  In ARM/Thumb-2 state a const_int that can be used by insn adddi."
 (and (match_code "const_int")
      (match_test "TARGET_32BIT && const_ok_for_dimode_op (ival, PLUS)")))

(define_constraint "De"
 "@internal
  In ARM/Thumb-2 state a const_int that can be used by insn anddi."
 (and (match_code "const_int")
      (match_test "TARGET_32BIT && const_ok_for_dimode_op (ival, AND)")))

(define_constraint "Df"
 "@internal
  In ARM/Thumb-2 state a const_int that can be used by insn iordi."
 (and (match_code "const_int")
      (match_test "TARGET_32BIT && const_ok_for_dimode_op (ival, IOR)")))

(define_constraint "Dg"
 "@internal
  In ARM/Thumb-2 state a const_int that can be used by insn xordi."
 (and (match_code "const_int")
      (match_test "TARGET_32BIT && const_ok_for_dimode_op (ival, XOR)")))

(define_constraint "Di"
 "@internal
  In ARM/Thumb-2 state a const_int or const_double where both the high
  and low SImode words can be generated as immediates in 32-bit instructions."
 (and (match_code "const_double,const_int")
      (match_test "TARGET_32BIT && arm_const_double_by_immediates (op)")))

(define_constraint "Dn"
 "@internal
  In ARM/Thumb-2 state a const_vector or const_int which can be loaded with a
  Neon vmov immediate instruction."
 (and (match_code "const_vector,const_int")
      (match_test "TARGET_32BIT
		   && imm_for_neon_mov_operand (op, GET_MODE (op))")))

(define_constraint "Dl"
 "@internal
  In ARM/Thumb-2 state a const_vector which can be used with a Neon vorr or
  vbic instruction."
 (and (match_code "const_vector")
      (match_test "TARGET_32BIT
		   && imm_for_neon_logic_operand (op, GET_MODE (op))")))

(define_constraint "DL"
 "@internal
  In ARM/Thumb-2 state a const_vector which can be used with a Neon vorn or
  vand instruction."
 (and (match_code "const_vector")
      (match_test "TARGET_32BIT
		   && imm_for_neon_inv_logic_operand (op, GET_MODE (op))")))

(define_constraint "Do"
 "@internal
  In ARM/Thumb2 state valid offset for an ldrd/strd instruction."
 (and (match_code "const_int")
      (match_test "TARGET_LDRD && offset_ok_for_ldrd_strd (ival)")))

(define_constraint "Dv"
 "@internal
  In ARM/Thumb-2 state a const_double which can be used with a VFP fconsts
  instruction."
 (and (match_code "const_double")
      (match_test "TARGET_32BIT && vfp3_const_double_rtx (op)")))

(define_constraint "Dy"
 "@internal
  In ARM/Thumb-2 state a const_double which can be used with a VFP fconstd
  instruction."
 (and (match_code "const_double")
      (match_test "TARGET_32BIT && TARGET_VFP_DOUBLE && vfp3_const_double_rtx (op)")))

(define_constraint "Dt" 
 "@internal
  In ARM/ Thumb2 a const_double which can be used with a vcvt.f32.s32 with fract bits operation"
  (and (match_code "const_double")
       (match_test "TARGET_32BIT && TARGET_VFP && vfp3_const_double_for_fract_bits (op)")))

(define_register_constraint "Ts" "(arm_restrict_it) ? LO_REGS : GENERAL_REGS"
 "For arm_restrict_it the core registers @code{r0}-@code{r7}.  GENERAL_REGS otherwise.")

(define_memory_constraint "Ua"
 "@internal
  An address valid for loading/storing register exclusive"
 (match_operand 0 "mem_noofs_operand"))

(define_memory_constraint "Ut"
 "@internal
  In ARM/Thumb-2 state an address valid for loading/storing opaque structure
  types wider than TImode."
 (and (match_code "mem")
      (match_test "TARGET_32BIT && neon_struct_mem_operand (op)")))

(define_memory_constraint "Uv"
 "@internal
  In ARM/Thumb-2 state a valid VFP load/store address."
 (and (match_code "mem")
      (match_test "TARGET_32BIT && arm_coproc_mem_operand (op, FALSE)")))

(define_memory_constraint "Uy"
 "@internal
  In ARM/Thumb-2 state a valid iWMMX load/store address."
 (and (match_code "mem")
      (match_test "TARGET_32BIT && arm_coproc_mem_operand (op, TRUE)")))

(define_memory_constraint "Un"
 "@internal
  In ARM/Thumb-2 state a valid address for Neon doubleword vector
  load/store instructions."
 (and (match_code "mem")
      (match_test "TARGET_32BIT && neon_vector_mem_operand (op, 0, true)")))

(define_memory_constraint "Um"
 "@internal
  In ARM/Thumb-2 state a valid address for Neon element and structure
  load/store instructions."
 (and (match_code "mem")
      (match_test "TARGET_32BIT && neon_vector_mem_operand (op, 2, true)")))

(define_memory_constraint "Us"
 "@internal
  In ARM/Thumb-2 state a valid address for non-offset loads/stores of
  quad-word values in four ARM registers."
 (and (match_code "mem")
      (match_test "TARGET_32BIT && neon_vector_mem_operand (op, 1, true)")))

(define_memory_constraint "Uq"
 "@internal
  In ARM state an address valid in ldrsb instructions."
 (and (match_code "mem")
      (match_test "TARGET_ARM
		   && arm_legitimate_address_outer_p (GET_MODE (op), XEXP (op, 0),
						      SIGN_EXTEND, 0)")))

(define_memory_constraint "Q"
 "@internal
  In ARM/Thumb-2 state an address that is a single base register."
 (and (match_code "mem")
      (match_test "REG_P (XEXP (op, 0))")))

(define_memory_constraint "Uu"
 "@internal
  In Thumb state an address that is valid in 16bit encoding."
 (and (match_code "mem")
      (match_test "TARGET_THUMB
		   && thumb1_legitimate_address_p (GET_MODE (op), XEXP (op, 0),
						   0)")))

; The 16-bit post-increment LDR/STR accepted by thumb1_legitimate_address_p
; are actually LDM/STM instructions, so cannot be used to access unaligned
; data.
(define_memory_constraint "Uw"
 "@internal
  In Thumb state an address that is valid in 16bit encoding, and that can be
  used for unaligned accesses."
 (and (match_code "mem")
      (match_test "TARGET_THUMB
		   && thumb1_legitimate_address_p (GET_MODE (op), XEXP (op, 0),
						   0)
		   && GET_CODE (XEXP (op, 0)) != POST_INC")))

(define_constraint "US"
 "@internal
  US is a symbol reference."
 (match_code "symbol_ref")
)

;; We used to have constraint letters for S and R in ARM state, but
;; all uses of these now appear to have been removed.

;; Additionally, we used to have a Q constraint in Thumb state, but
;; this wasn't really a valid memory constraint.  Again, all uses of
;; this now seem to have been removed.

Commit message:

gcc/
2013-12-24  Renlin Li  <Renlin.Li@arm.com>

	* config/arm/arm-protos.h (vfp_const_double_for_bits): Declare.
	* config/arm/constraints.md (Dp): Define new constraint.
	* config/arm/predicates.md (const_double_vcvt_power_of_two): Define
	new predicate.
	* config/arm/arm.c (arm_print_operand): Add print for new fucntion.
	(vfp3_const_double_for_bits): New function.
	* config/arm/vfp.md (combine_vcvtf2i): Define new instruction.

gcc/testsuite/

2013-12-24  Renlin Li  <Renlin.Li@arm.com>

	* gcc.target/arm/fixed_float_conversion.c: New test case.


git-svn-id: svn://gcc.gnu.org/svn/gcc/trunk@206195 138bc75d-0d04-0410-961f-82ee72b054a4

gcc/config/arm/constraints.md, after:

;; Constraint definitions for ARM and Thumb
;; Copyright (C) 2006-2013 Free Software Foundation, Inc.
;; Contributed by ARM Ltd.

;; This file is part of GCC.

;; GCC is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it
;; under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published
;; by the Free Software Foundation; either version 3, or (at your
;; option) any later version.

;; GCC is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but WITHOUT
;; ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of MERCHANTABILITY
;; or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the GNU General Public
;; License for more details.

;; You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
;; along with GCC; see the file COPYING3.  If not see
;; <http://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.

;; The following register constraints have been used:
;; - in ARM/Thumb-2 state: t, w, x, y, z
;; - in Thumb state: h, b
;; - in both states: l, c, k, q, US
;; In ARM state, 'l' is an alias for 'r'
;; 'f' and 'v' were previously used for FPA and MAVERICK registers.

;; The following normal constraints have been used:
;; in ARM/Thumb-2 state: G, I, j, J, K, L, M
;; in Thumb-1 state: I, J, K, L, M, N, O
;; 'H' was previously used for FPA.

;; The following multi-letter normal constraints have been used:
;; in ARM/Thumb-2 state: Da, Db, Dc, Dd, Dn, Dl, DL, Do, Dv, Dy, Di, Dt, Dp, Dz
;; in Thumb-1 state: Pa, Pb, Pc, Pd, Pe
;; in Thumb-2 state: Pj, PJ, Ps, Pt, Pu, Pv, Pw, Px, Py

;; The following memory constraints have been used:
;; in ARM/Thumb-2 state: Q, Ut, Uv, Uy, Un, Um, Us
;; in ARM state: Uq
;; in Thumb state: Uu, Uw


(define_register_constraint "t" "TARGET_32BIT ? VFP_LO_REGS : NO_REGS"
 "The VFP registers @code{s0}-@code{s31}.")

(define_register_constraint "w"
  "TARGET_32BIT ? (TARGET_VFPD32 ? VFP_REGS : VFP_LO_REGS) : NO_REGS"
 "The VFP registers @code{d0}-@code{d15}, or @code{d0}-@code{d31} for VFPv3.")

(define_register_constraint "x" "TARGET_32BIT ? VFP_D0_D7_REGS : NO_REGS"
 "The VFP registers @code{d0}-@code{d7}.")

(define_register_constraint "y" "TARGET_REALLY_IWMMXT ? IWMMXT_REGS : NO_REGS"
 "The Intel iWMMX co-processor registers.")

(define_register_constraint "z"
 "TARGET_REALLY_IWMMXT ? IWMMXT_GR_REGS : NO_REGS"
 "The Intel iWMMX GR registers.")

(define_register_constraint "l" "TARGET_THUMB ? LO_REGS : GENERAL_REGS"
 "In Thumb state the core registers @code{r0}-@code{r7}.")

(define_register_constraint "h" "TARGET_THUMB ? HI_REGS : NO_REGS"
 "In Thumb state the core registers @code{r8}-@code{r15}.")

(define_constraint "j"
 "A constant suitable for a MOVW instruction. (ARM/Thumb-2)"
 (and (match_test "TARGET_32BIT && arm_arch_thumb2")
      (ior (match_code "high")
	   (and (match_code "const_int")
                (match_test "(ival & 0xffff0000) == 0")))))

(define_constraint "Pj"
 "@internal A 12-bit constant suitable for an ADDW or SUBW instruction. (Thumb-2)"
 (and (match_code "const_int")
      (and (match_test "TARGET_THUMB2")
	   (match_test "(ival & 0xfffff000) == 0"))))

(define_constraint "PJ"
 "@internal A constant that satisfies the Pj constrant if negated."
 (and (match_code "const_int")
      (and (match_test "TARGET_THUMB2")
	   (match_test "((-ival) & 0xfffff000) == 0"))))

(define_register_constraint "k" "STACK_REG"
 "@internal The stack register.")

(define_register_constraint "q" "(TARGET_ARM && TARGET_LDRD) ? CORE_REGS : GENERAL_REGS"
  "@internal In ARM state with LDRD support, core registers, otherwise general registers.")

(define_register_constraint "b" "TARGET_THUMB ? BASE_REGS : NO_REGS"
 "@internal
  Thumb only.  The union of the low registers and the stack register.")

(define_register_constraint "c" "CC_REG"
 "@internal The condition code register.")

(define_register_constraint "Cs" "CALLER_SAVE_REGS"
 "@internal The caller save registers.  Useful for sibcalls.")

(define_constraint "I"
 "In ARM/Thumb-2 state a constant that can be used as an immediate value in a
  Data Processing instruction.  In Thumb-1 state a constant in the range
  0-255."
 (and (match_code "const_int")
      (match_test "TARGET_32BIT ? const_ok_for_arm (ival)
		   : ival >= 0 && ival <= 255")))

(define_constraint "J"
 "In ARM/Thumb-2 state a constant in the range @minus{}4095-4095.  In Thumb-1
  state a constant in the range @minus{}255-@minus{}1."
 (and (match_code "const_int")
      (match_test "TARGET_32BIT ? (ival >= -4095 && ival <= 4095)
		   : (ival >= -255 && ival <= -1)")))

(define_constraint "K"
 "In ARM/Thumb-2 state a constant that satisfies the @code{I} constraint if
  inverted.  In Thumb-1 state a constant that satisfies the @code{I}
  constraint multiplied by any power of 2."
 (and (match_code "const_int")
      (match_test "TARGET_32BIT ? const_ok_for_arm (~ival)
		   : thumb_shiftable_const (ival)")))

(define_constraint "L"
 "In ARM/Thumb-2 state a constant that satisfies the @code{I} constraint if
  negated.  In Thumb-1 state a constant in the range @minus{}7-7."
 (and (match_code "const_int")
      (match_test "TARGET_32BIT ? const_ok_for_arm (-ival)
		   : (ival >= -7 && ival <= 7)")))

;; The ARM state version is internal...
;; @internal In ARM/Thumb-2 state a constant in the range 0-32 or any
;; power of 2.
(define_constraint "M"
 "In Thumb-1 state a constant that is a multiple of 4 in the range 0-1020."
 (and (match_code "const_int")
      (match_test "TARGET_32BIT ? ((ival >= 0 && ival <= 32)
				 || (((ival & (ival - 1)) & 0xFFFFFFFF) == 0))
		   : ival >= 0 && ival <= 1020 && (ival & 3) == 0")))

(define_constraint "N"
 "Thumb-1 state a constant in the range 0-31."
 (and (match_code "const_int")
      (match_test "!TARGET_32BIT && (ival >= 0 && ival <= 31)")))

(define_constraint "O"
 "In Thumb-1 state a constant that is a multiple of 4 in the range
  @minus{}508-508."
 (and (match_code "const_int")
      (match_test "TARGET_THUMB1 && ival >= -508 && ival <= 508
		   && ((ival & 3) == 0)")))

(define_constraint "Pa"
  "@internal In Thumb-1 state a constant in the range -510 to +510"
  (and (match_code "const_int")
       (match_test "TARGET_THUMB1 && ival >= -510 && ival <= 510
		    && (ival > 255 || ival < -255)")))

(define_constraint "Pb"
  "@internal In Thumb-1 state a constant in the range -262 to +262"
  (and (match_code "const_int")
       (match_test "TARGET_THUMB1 && ival >= -262 && ival <= 262
		    && (ival > 255 || ival < -255)")))

(define_constraint "Pc"
  "@internal In Thumb-1 state a constant that is in the range 1021 to 1275"
  (and (match_code "const_int")
       (match_test "TARGET_THUMB1
  		    && ival > 1020 && ival <= 1275")))

(define_constraint "Pd"
  "@internal In Thumb state a constant in the range 0 to 7"
  (and (match_code "const_int")
       (match_test "TARGET_THUMB && ival >= 0 && ival <= 7")))

(define_constraint "Pe"
  "@internal In Thumb-1 state a constant in the range 256 to +510"
  (and (match_code "const_int")
       (match_test "TARGET_THUMB1 && ival >= 256 && ival <= 510")))

(define_constraint "Ps"
  "@internal In Thumb-2 state a constant in the range -255 to +255"
  (and (match_code "const_int")
       (match_test "TARGET_THUMB2 && ival >= -255 && ival <= 255")))

(define_constraint "Pt"
  "@internal In Thumb-2 state a constant in the range -7 to +7"
  (and (match_code "const_int")
       (match_test "TARGET_THUMB2 && ival >= -7 && ival <= 7")))

(define_constraint "Pu"
  "@internal In Thumb-2 state a constant in the range +1 to +8"
  (and (match_code "const_int")
       (match_test "TARGET_THUMB2 && ival >= 1 && ival <= 8")))

(define_constraint "Pv"
  "@internal In Thumb-2 state a constant in the range -255 to 0"
  (and (match_code "const_int")
       (match_test "TARGET_THUMB2 && ival >= -255 && ival <= 0")))

(define_constraint "Pw"
  "@internal In Thumb-2 state a constant in the range -255 to -1"
  (and (match_code "const_int")
       (match_test "TARGET_THUMB2 && ival >= -255 && ival <= -1")))

(define_constraint "Px"
  "@internal In Thumb-2 state a constant in the range -7 to -1"
  (and (match_code "const_int")
       (match_test "TARGET_THUMB2 && ival >= -7 && ival <= -1")))

(define_constraint "Py"
  "@internal In Thumb-2 state a constant in the range 0 to 255"
  (and (match_code "const_int")
       (match_test "TARGET_THUMB2 && ival >= 0 && ival <= 255")))

(define_constraint "Pz"
  "@internal In Thumb-2 state the constant 0"
  (and (match_code "const_int")
       (match_test "TARGET_THUMB2 && (ival == 0)")))

(define_constraint "G"
 "In ARM/Thumb-2 state the floating-point constant 0."
 (and (match_code "const_double")
      (match_test "TARGET_32BIT && arm_const_double_rtx (op)")))

(define_constraint "Dz"
 "@internal
  In ARM/Thumb-2 state a vector of constant zeros."
 (and (match_code "const_vector")
      (match_test "TARGET_NEON && op == CONST0_RTX (mode)")))

(define_constraint "Da"
 "@internal
  In ARM/Thumb-2 state a const_int, const_double or const_vector that can
  be generated with two Data Processing insns."
 (and (match_code "const_double,const_int,const_vector")
      (match_test "TARGET_32BIT && arm_const_double_inline_cost (op) == 2")))

(define_constraint "Db"
 "@internal
  In ARM/Thumb-2 state a const_int, const_double or const_vector that can
  be generated with three Data Processing insns."
 (and (match_code "const_double,const_int,const_vector")
      (match_test "TARGET_32BIT && arm_const_double_inline_cost (op) == 3")))

(define_constraint "Dc"
 "@internal
  In ARM/Thumb-2 state a const_int, const_double or const_vector that can
  be generated with four Data Processing insns.  This pattern is disabled
  if optimizing for space or when we have load-delay slots to fill."
 (and (match_code "const_double,const_int,const_vector")
      (match_test "TARGET_32BIT && arm_const_double_inline_cost (op) == 4
		   && !(optimize_size || arm_ld_sched)")))

(define_constraint "Dd"
 "@internal
  In ARM/Thumb-2 state a const_int that can be used by insn adddi."
 (and (match_code "const_int")
      (match_test "TARGET_32BIT && const_ok_for_dimode_op (ival, PLUS)")))

(define_constraint "De"
 "@internal
  In ARM/Thumb-2 state a const_int that can be used by insn anddi."
 (and (match_code "const_int")
      (match_test "TARGET_32BIT && const_ok_for_dimode_op (ival, AND)")))

(define_constraint "Df"
 "@internal
  In ARM/Thumb-2 state a const_int that can be used by insn iordi."
 (and (match_code "const_int")
      (match_test "TARGET_32BIT && const_ok_for_dimode_op (ival, IOR)")))

(define_constraint "Dg"
 "@internal
  In ARM/Thumb-2 state a const_int that can be used by insn xordi."
 (and (match_code "const_int")
      (match_test "TARGET_32BIT && const_ok_for_dimode_op (ival, XOR)")))

(define_constraint "Di"
 "@internal
  In ARM/Thumb-2 state a const_int or const_double where both the high
  and low SImode words can be generated as immediates in 32-bit instructions."
 (and (match_code "const_double,const_int")
      (match_test "TARGET_32BIT && arm_const_double_by_immediates (op)")))

(define_constraint "Dn"
 "@internal
  In ARM/Thumb-2 state a const_vector or const_int which can be loaded with a
  Neon vmov immediate instruction."
 (and (match_code "const_vector,const_int")
      (match_test "TARGET_32BIT
		   && imm_for_neon_mov_operand (op, GET_MODE (op))")))

(define_constraint "Dl"
 "@internal
  In ARM/Thumb-2 state a const_vector which can be used with a Neon vorr or
  vbic instruction."
 (and (match_code "const_vector")
      (match_test "TARGET_32BIT
		   && imm_for_neon_logic_operand (op, GET_MODE (op))")))

(define_constraint "DL"
 "@internal
  In ARM/Thumb-2 state a const_vector which can be used with a Neon vorn or
  vand instruction."
 (and (match_code "const_vector")
      (match_test "TARGET_32BIT
		   && imm_for_neon_inv_logic_operand (op, GET_MODE (op))")))

(define_constraint "Do"
 "@internal
  In ARM/Thumb2 state valid offset for an ldrd/strd instruction."
 (and (match_code "const_int")
      (match_test "TARGET_LDRD && offset_ok_for_ldrd_strd (ival)")))

(define_constraint "Dv"
 "@internal
  In ARM/Thumb-2 state a const_double which can be used with a VFP fconsts
  instruction."
 (and (match_code "const_double")
      (match_test "TARGET_32BIT && vfp3_const_double_rtx (op)")))

(define_constraint "Dy"
 "@internal
  In ARM/Thumb-2 state a const_double which can be used with a VFP fconstd
  instruction."
 (and (match_code "const_double")
      (match_test "TARGET_32BIT && TARGET_VFP_DOUBLE && vfp3_const_double_rtx (op)")))

(define_constraint "Dt"
 "@internal
  In ARM/ Thumb2 a const_double which can be used with a vcvt.f32.s32 with fract bits operation"
  (and (match_code "const_double")
       (match_test "TARGET_32BIT && TARGET_VFP && vfp3_const_double_for_fract_bits (op)")))

(define_constraint "Dp"
 "@internal
  In ARM/ Thumb2 a const_double which can be used with a vcvt.s32.f32 with bits operation"
  (and (match_code "const_double")
       (match_test "TARGET_32BIT && TARGET_VFP && vfp3_const_double_for_bits (op)")))

(define_register_constraint "Ts" "(arm_restrict_it) ? LO_REGS : GENERAL_REGS"
 "For arm_restrict_it the core registers @code{r0}-@code{r7}.  GENERAL_REGS otherwise.")

(define_memory_constraint "Ua"
 "@internal
  An address valid for loading/storing register exclusive"
 (match_operand 0 "mem_noofs_operand"))

(define_memory_constraint "Ut"
 "@internal
  In ARM/Thumb-2 state an address valid for loading/storing opaque structure
  types wider than TImode."
 (and (match_code "mem")
      (match_test "TARGET_32BIT && neon_struct_mem_operand (op)")))

(define_memory_constraint "Uv"
 "@internal
  In ARM/Thumb-2 state a valid VFP load/store address."
 (and (match_code "mem")
      (match_test "TARGET_32BIT && arm_coproc_mem_operand (op, FALSE)")))

(define_memory_constraint "Uy"
 "@internal
  In ARM/Thumb-2 state a valid iWMMX load/store address."
 (and (match_code "mem")
      (match_test "TARGET_32BIT && arm_coproc_mem_operand (op, TRUE)")))

(define_memory_constraint "Un"
 "@internal
  In ARM/Thumb-2 state a valid address for Neon doubleword vector
  load/store instructions."
 (and (match_code "mem")
      (match_test "TARGET_32BIT && neon_vector_mem_operand (op, 0, true)")))

(define_memory_constraint "Um"
 "@internal
  In ARM/Thumb-2 state a valid address for Neon element and structure
  load/store instructions."
 (and (match_code "mem")
      (match_test "TARGET_32BIT && neon_vector_mem_operand (op, 2, true)")))

(define_memory_constraint "Us"
 "@internal
  In ARM/Thumb-2 state a valid address for non-offset loads/stores of
  quad-word values in four ARM registers."
 (and (match_code "mem")
      (match_test "TARGET_32BIT && neon_vector_mem_operand (op, 1, true)")))

(define_memory_constraint "Uq"
 "@internal
  In ARM state an address valid in ldrsb instructions."
 (and (match_code "mem")
      (match_test "TARGET_ARM
		   && arm_legitimate_address_outer_p (GET_MODE (op), XEXP (op, 0),
						      SIGN_EXTEND, 0)")))

(define_memory_constraint "Q"
 "@internal
  In ARM/Thumb-2 state an address that is a single base register."
 (and (match_code "mem")
      (match_test "REG_P (XEXP (op, 0))")))

(define_memory_constraint "Uu"
 "@internal
  In Thumb state an address that is valid in 16bit encoding."
 (and (match_code "mem")
      (match_test "TARGET_THUMB
		   && thumb1_legitimate_address_p (GET_MODE (op), XEXP (op, 0),
						   0)")))

; The 16-bit post-increment LDR/STR accepted by thumb1_legitimate_address_p
; are actually LDM/STM instructions, so cannot be used to access unaligned
; data.
(define_memory_constraint "Uw"
 "@internal
  In Thumb state an address that is valid in 16bit encoding, and that can be
  used for unaligned accesses."
 (and (match_code "mem")
      (match_test "TARGET_THUMB
		   && thumb1_legitimate_address_p (GET_MODE (op), XEXP (op, 0),
						   0)
		   && GET_CODE (XEXP (op, 0)) != POST_INC")))

(define_constraint "US"
 "@internal
  US is a symbol reference."
 (match_code "symbol_ref")
)

;; We used to have constraint letters for S and R in ARM state, but
;; all uses of these now appear to have been removed.

;; Additionally, we used to have a Q constraint in Thumb state, but
;; this wasn't really a valid memory constraint.  Again, all uses of
;; this now seem to have been removed.
