gcc/config/spu/constraints.md, before:

;; Constraint definitions for SPU
;; Copyright (C) 2006 Free Software Foundation, Inc.
;;
;; This file is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it under
;; the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by the Free
;; Software Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or (at your option) 
;; any later version.

;; This file is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but WITHOUT
;; ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of MERCHANTABILITY or
;; FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the GNU General Public License
;; for more details.

;; You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
;; along with this file; see the file COPYING.  If not, write to the Free
;; Software Foundation, 51 Franklin Street, Fifth Floor, Boston, MA
;; 02110-1301, USA.


;; GCC standard constraints:  g, i, m, n, o, p, r, s, E-H, I-P, V, X
;; unused for SPU:  E-H, L, Q, d, e, h, j-l, q, t-z

;; For most immediate constraints we have 3 variations to deal with the
;; fact const_int has no mode.  One variation treats const_int as 32 bit,
;; another treats it as 64 bit, and the third sign extends it to 128 bit.

(define_constraint "A"
  "An immediate which can be loaded with the il/ila/ilh/ilhu instructions.  const_int is treated as a 32 bit value."
  (ior (and (match_code "const_int,const_double,const_vector")
	    (match_test "immediate_load_p (op, SImode)"))
       (match_code "symbol_ref,label_ref,high,const")))

(define_constraint "B"
  "An immediate for arithmetic instructions (e.g., ai, ceqi).  const_int is treated as a 32 bit value."
  (and (match_code "const_int,const_double,const_vector")
       (match_test "arith_immediate_p (op, SImode, -0x200, 0x1ff)")))

(define_constraint "C"
  "An immediate for and/xor/or instructions.  const_int is treated as a 32 bit value."
  (and (match_code "const_int,const_double,const_vector")
       (match_test "logical_immediate_p (op, SImode)")))

(define_constraint "D"
  "An immediate for iohl instruction.  const_int is treated as a 32 bit value."
  (and (match_code "const_int,const_double,const_vector")
       (match_test "iohl_immediate_p (op, SImode)")))

(define_constraint "U"
  "An immediate which can be loaded with the il/ila/ilh/ilhu instructions.  const_int is sign extended to 128 bit."
  (and (match_code "const_int,const_double,const_vector")
       (match_test "immediate_load_p (op, TImode)")))

(define_constraint "W"
  "An immediate for shift and rotate instructions.  const_int is treated as a 32 bit value."
  (and (match_code "const_int,const_double,const_vector")
       (match_test "arith_immediate_p (op, SImode, -0x40, 0x3f)")))

(define_constraint "Y"
  "An immediate for and/xor/or instructions.  const_int is sign extended as a 128 bit."
  (and (match_code "const_int,const_double,const_vector")
       (match_test "logical_immediate_p (op, TImode)")))

(define_constraint "Z"
  "An immediate for iohl instruction.  const_int is sign extended to 128 bit."
  (and (match_code "const_int,const_double,const_vector")
       (match_test "iohl_immediate_p (op, TImode)")))

(define_constraint "a"
  "An immediate which can be loaded with the il/ila/ilh/ilhu instructions.  const_int is treated as a 64 bit value."
  (and (match_code "const_int")
       (match_test "immediate_load_p (op, DImode)")))

(define_constraint "c"
  "An immediate for and/xor/or instructions.  const_int is treated as a 64 bit value."
  (and (match_code "const_int")
       (match_test "logical_immediate_p (op, DImode)")))

(define_constraint "d"
  "An immediate for iohl instruction.  const_int is treated as a 64 bit value."
  (and (match_code "const_int")
       (match_test "iohl_immediate_p (op, DImode)")))

(define_constraint "f"
  "An immediate which can be loaded with fsmbi."
  (and (match_code "const_int,const_double,const_vector")
       (match_test "fsmbi_const_p (op)")))

;; Integer constraints

(define_constraint "I"
  "A constant in the range [-64, 63] for shift/rotate instructions."
  (and (match_code "const_int")
       (match_test "ival >= -0x40 && ival <= 0x3f")))

(define_constraint "J"
  "An unsigned 7-bit constant for conversion/nop/channel instructions."
  (and (match_code "const_int")
       (match_test "ival >= 0 && ival <= 0x7f")))

(define_constraint "K"
  "A signed 10-bit constant for most arithmetic instructions."
  (and (match_code "const_int")
       (match_test "ival >= -0x200 && ival <= 0x1ff")))
 
(define_constraint "M"
  "A signed 16 bit immediate for @code{stop}."
  (and (match_code "const_int")
       (match_test "ival >= -0x8000ll && ival <= 0x7fffll")))

(define_constraint "N"
  "An unsigned 16-bit constant for @code{iohl} and @code{fsmbi}."
  (and (match_code "const_int")
       (match_test "ival >= 0 && ival <= 0xffff")))

(define_constraint "O"
  "An unsigned 7-bit constant whose 3 least significant bits are 0."
  (and (match_code "const_int")
       (match_test "ival >= 0 && ival <= 0x7f && (ival & 7) == 0")))

(define_constraint "P"
  "An unsigned 3-bit constant for 16-byte rotates and shifts"
  (and (match_code "const_int")
       (match_test "ival >= 0 && ival <= 7")))


;; Memory constraints

(define_memory_constraint "R"
  "Call operand, reg, for indirect calls"
  (and (match_code "mem")
       (match_test "GET_CODE(XEXP(op, 0)) == REG")))

(define_memory_constraint "S"
  "Call operand, symbol, for relative calls."
  (and (match_code "mem")
       (match_test "!TARGET_LARGE_MEM
		    && ((GET_CODE (XEXP (op, 0)) == SYMBOL_REF
			 || GET_CODE (XEXP (op, 0)) == LABEL_REF))")))

(define_memory_constraint "T"
  "Call operand, const_int, for absolute calls."
  (and (match_code "mem")
       (match_test "GET_CODE (XEXP (op, 0)) == CONST_INT
		    && INTVAL (XEXP (op, 0)) >= 0
		    && INTVAL (XEXP (op, 0)) <= 0x3ffff")))

Commit message:

* config/spu/spu-protos.h (spu_split_immediate): Renamed from         spu_split_address.         (cpat_const_p, gen_cpat_const): Add.         * config/spu/spu.c (immediate_class): New enum.         (cpat_info, classify_immediate): New.         (print_operand): Use S, D, T instead of F, G, H.  Use         classify_immediate.  Handle cpat cases.         (spu_split_immediate):  Renamed from spu_split_address.  Split all         immediates that can be split.         (immediate_load_p): Use classify_immediate.         (spu_legitimate_constant_p): Accept everything except some cases of         CONST_VECTOR.         (spu_expand_move): Use spu_split_immedate.         (fsmbi_const_p): Use classify_immediate.         (cpat_const_p): New.         (gen_cpat_const: New.         * config/spu/constraints.md (j,k,l): New constraints for cpat         instructions.         * config/spu/spu.md (unnamed splitter): Change address splitter to         handle all immediates.         (_mov<mode>, _movdi, _movti): Handle i, j, k constraints for cpat         instructions.         (cpat, _cpat, splitter): Generate a TImode constant for cpat patterns         when possible.
git-svn-id: svn://gcc.gnu.org/svn/gcc/trunk@119682 138bc75d-0d04-0410-961f-82ee72b054a4

gcc/config/spu/constraints.md, after:

;; Constraint definitions for SPU
;; Copyright (C) 2006 Free Software Foundation, Inc.
;;
;; This file is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it under
;; the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by the Free
;; Software Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or (at your option) 
;; any later version.

;; This file is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but WITHOUT
;; ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of MERCHANTABILITY or
;; FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the GNU General Public License
;; for more details.

;; You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
;; along with this file; see the file COPYING.  If not, write to the Free
;; Software Foundation, 51 Franklin Street, Fifth Floor, Boston, MA
;; 02110-1301, USA.


;; GCC standard constraints:  g, i, m, n, o, p, r, s, E-H, I-P, V, X
;; unused for SPU:  E-H, L, Q, d, e, h, q, t-z

;; For most immediate constraints we have 3 variations to deal with the
;; fact const_int has no mode.  One variation treats const_int as 32 bit,
;; another treats it as 64 bit, and the third sign extends it to 128 bit.

(define_constraint "A"
  "An immediate which can be loaded with the il/ila/ilh/ilhu instructions.  const_int is treated as a 32 bit value."
  (ior (and (match_code "const_int,const_double,const_vector")
	    (match_test "immediate_load_p (op, SImode)"))
       (match_code "symbol_ref,label_ref,high,const")))

(define_constraint "B"
  "An immediate for arithmetic instructions (e.g., ai, ceqi).  const_int is treated as a 32 bit value."
  (and (match_code "const_int,const_double,const_vector")
       (match_test "arith_immediate_p (op, SImode, -0x200, 0x1ff)")))

(define_constraint "C"
  "An immediate for and/xor/or instructions.  const_int is treated as a 32 bit value."
  (and (match_code "const_int,const_double,const_vector")
       (match_test "logical_immediate_p (op, SImode)")))

(define_constraint "D"
  "An immediate for iohl instruction.  const_int is treated as a 32 bit value."
  (and (match_code "const_int,const_double,const_vector")
       (match_test "iohl_immediate_p (op, SImode)")))

(define_constraint "U"
  "An immediate which can be loaded with the il/ila/ilh/ilhu instructions.  const_int is sign extended to 128 bit."
  (and (match_code "const_int,const_double,const_vector")
       (match_test "immediate_load_p (op, TImode)")))

(define_constraint "W"
  "An immediate for shift and rotate instructions.  const_int is treated as a 32 bit value."
  (and (match_code "const_int,const_double,const_vector")
       (match_test "arith_immediate_p (op, SImode, -0x40, 0x3f)")))

(define_constraint "Y"
  "An immediate for and/xor/or instructions.  const_int is sign extended as a 128 bit."
  (and (match_code "const_int,const_double,const_vector")
       (match_test "logical_immediate_p (op, TImode)")))

(define_constraint "Z"
  "An immediate for iohl instruction.  const_int is sign extended to 128 bit."
  (and (match_code "const_int,const_double,const_vector")
       (match_test "iohl_immediate_p (op, TImode)")))

(define_constraint "a"
  "An immediate which can be loaded with the il/ila/ilh/ilhu instructions.  const_int is treated as a 64 bit value."
  (and (match_code "const_int")
       (match_test "immediate_load_p (op, DImode)")))

(define_constraint "c"
  "An immediate for and/xor/or instructions.  const_int is treated as a 64 bit value."
  (and (match_code "const_int")
       (match_test "logical_immediate_p (op, DImode)")))

(define_constraint "d"
  "An immediate for iohl instruction.  const_int is treated as a 64 bit value."
  (and (match_code "const_int")
       (match_test "iohl_immediate_p (op, DImode)")))

(define_constraint "f"
  "An immediate which can be loaded with fsmbi."
  (and (match_code "const_int,const_double,const_vector")
       (match_test "fsmbi_const_p (op)")))

(define_constraint "j"
  "An immediate which can be loaded with one of the cbd/chd/cwd/cdd instructions.  const_int is treated as a 32 bit value."
  (and (match_code "const_int,const_double,const_vector")
       (match_test "cpat_const_p (op, SImode)")))

(define_constraint "k"
  "An immediate which can be loaded with one of the cbd/chd/cwd/cdd instructions.  const_int is treated as a 64 bit value."
  (and (match_code "const_int,const_double,const_vector")
       (match_test "cpat_const_p (op, DImode)")))

(define_constraint "l"
  "An immediate which can be loaded with one of the cbd/chd/cwd/cdd instructions."
  (and (match_code "const_double,const_vector")
       (match_test "cpat_const_p (op, TImode)")))


;; Integer constraints

(define_constraint "I"
  "A constant in the range [-64, 63] for shift/rotate instructions."
  (and (match_code "const_int")
       (match_test "ival >= -0x40 && ival <= 0x3f")))

(define_constraint "J"
  "An unsigned 7-bit constant for conversion/nop/channel instructions."
  (and (match_code "const_int")
       (match_test "ival >= 0 && ival <= 0x7f")))

(define_constraint "K"
  "A signed 10-bit constant for most arithmetic instructions."
  (and (match_code "const_int")
       (match_test "ival >= -0x200 && ival <= 0x1ff")))
 
(define_constraint "M"
  "A signed 16 bit immediate for @code{stop}."
  (and (match_code "const_int")
       (match_test "ival >= -0x8000ll && ival <= 0x7fffll")))

(define_constraint "N"
  "An unsigned 16-bit constant for @code{iohl} and @code{fsmbi}."
  (and (match_code "const_int")
       (match_test "ival >= 0 && ival <= 0xffff")))

(define_constraint "O"
  "An unsigned 7-bit constant whose 3 least significant bits are 0."
  (and (match_code "const_int")
       (match_test "ival >= 0 && ival <= 0x7f && (ival & 7) == 0")))

(define_constraint "P"
  "An unsigned 3-bit constant for 16-byte rotates and shifts"
  (and (match_code "const_int")
       (match_test "ival >= 0 && ival <= 7")))


;; Memory constraints

(define_memory_constraint "R"
  "Call operand, reg, for indirect calls"
  (and (match_code "mem")
       (match_test "GET_CODE(XEXP(op, 0)) == REG")))

(define_memory_constraint "S"
  "Call operand, symbol, for relative calls."
  (and (match_code "mem")
       (match_test "!TARGET_LARGE_MEM
		    && ((GET_CODE (XEXP (op, 0)) == SYMBOL_REF
			 || GET_CODE (XEXP (op, 0)) == LABEL_REF))")))

(define_memory_constraint "T"
  "Call operand, const_int, for absolute calls."
  (and (match_code "mem")
       (match_test "GET_CODE (XEXP (op, 0)) == CONST_INT
		    && INTVAL (XEXP (op, 0)) >= 0
		    && INTVAL (XEXP (op, 0)) <= 0x3ffff")))
